README.md, before:

# perpetual-js

A light weight version of Immutable.js.
This library comes in at 8kb minified and 3kb minified + gzipped.

Because of efforts to keep bundle size small not all methods are included in Perpetual. Just the essential ones.

## Installation

Install `perpetual-js` using npm or yarn.

```
npm install perpetual-js
yarn add perpetual-js
```

## Requirements

```JavaScript
Object.assign()
rest/spread
{ ...object }
```

## Usage

Perpetual comes with two different immutable collections: Map and List.
`Map`: is a collection of key value pairs.
`List`: is a collection of values.

### Example

- Can import multiple different ways.

```jsx
import { Map, List } from 'perpetual-js';

const map = Map({ value: 'value' });
const list = List([1, 2, 3, 4]);
```

## fromJS()

Deeply converts plain JS objects and arrays to Immutable Maps and Lists.

```typescript
fromJS(jsValue: any): any
```

## is()

Value equality check with semantics similar to Object.is, but treats Immutable Collections as values, equal if the second Collection includes equivalent values.

```typescript
is(first: any, second: any): boolean
```

## Map

**\*get()**

Returns the value associated with the provided key, or notSetValue if the Collection does not contain this key.

```typescript
get<NSV>(key: K, notSetValue: NSV): V | NSV
get(key: K): V | undefined
```

**\*getIn()**

Returns the value found by following a path of keys or indices through nested Collections.

```typescript
getIn(searchKeyPath: Iterable<array>, notSetValue?: any): any
```

**\*hashCode()**

The hashCode() function is an important part of how Perpetual determines if two values are equivalent and is used to determine how to store those values.

```typescript
hashCode(): number
```

**\*has()**

True if a key exists within this `Collection`.

```typescript
has(key: K): boolean
```

**\*hasIn()**

True if the result of following a path of keys or indices through nested Collections results in a set value.

```typescript
hasIn(searchKeyPath: Iterable<array>): boolean
```

**\*map()**

Returns a new Map with values passed through a mapper function.

```typescript
map<M>(mapper: (value: V, key: K, iter: this) => M, context?: any): Map<K, M>
```

**\*merge()**

Returns a new Map resulting from merging the provided Collections (or JS objects) into this Map. In other words, this takes each entry of each collection and sets it on this Map.

```typescript
merge<KC, VC>(...collections: Array<Iterable<[KC, VC]>>): Map<K | KC, V | VC>
merge<C>(...collections: Array<{[key: string]: C}>): Map<K | string, V | C>
```

**\*mergeDeep()**

Like merge(), but when two Collections conflict, it merges them as well, recursing deeply through the nested data.

```typescript
mergeDeep(...collections: Array<Iterable<[K, V]> | {[key: string]: V}>): this
```

**\*mergeDeepIn()**

A combination of updateIn and mergeDeep, returning a new Map, but performing the deep merge at a point arrived at by following the keyPath.

```typescript
mergeDeepIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, ...collections: Array<any>): this
```

**\*mergeIn()**

A combination of updateIn and merge, returning a new Map, but performing the merge at a point arrived at by following the keyPath.

```typescript
mergeIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, ...collections: Array<any>): this
```

**\*set()**

Returns a new Map also containing the new key, value pair. If an equivalent key already exists in this Map, it will be replaced.

```typescript
set(key: K, value: V): this
```

**\*setIn()**

Returns a new Map having set `value` at this `keyPath`. If any keys in `keyPath` do not exist, a new immutable Map will be created at that key.

```typescript
setIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, value: any): this
```

**\*delete()**

Returns a new Map which exludes this `key`.

```typescript
delete(key: K): this
```

alias: remove()

**\*deleteIn()**

Returns a new Map having removed the value at this keyPath. If any keys in keyPath do not exist, no change will occur.

```typescript
deleteIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>): this
```

**\*reduce()**

Returns a new Map with values passed through a `reduce` function.

```typescript
reduce<R>(
reducer: (reduction: R, value: [K, V], key: number, iter: this) => R,
initialReduction: R,
context?: any
): R
reduce<R>(
reducer: (reduction: T | R, value: [K, V], key: number, iter: this) => R
): R
```

**\*toJS()**

Deeply converts this Keyed collection to equivalent native JavaScript Object.

```typescript
toJS(): Object
```

**\*update()**

Returns a new Map having updated the value at this key with the return value of calling updater with the existing value.

```typescript
update(key: K, notSetValue: V, updater: (value: V) => V): this
update(key: K, updater: (value: V) => V): this
update<R>(updater: (value: this) => R): R
```

**\*updateIn()**

Returns a new Map having applied the updater to the entry found at the keyPath.

```typescript
updateIn(
keyPath: Iterable<array>,
notSetValue: any,
updater: (value: any) => any
): this
updateIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, updater: (value: any) => any): this
```

**\*withMutations()**

Every time you call one of the above functions, a new immutable Map is created. If a pure function calls a number of these to produce a final return value, then a penalty on performance and memory has been paid by creating all of the intermediate immutable Maps.

```typescript
withMutations(mutator: (mutable: this) => any): this
```

## List

**\*clear()**

Returns a new List with 0 size and no values in constant time.

```typescript
clear(): List<T>
```

**\*concat()**

Returns a new List with other values or collections concatenated to this one.

```typescript
concat<C>(...valuesOrCollections: Array<Iterable<C> | C>): List<T | C>
```

alias: merge

**\*delete()**

Returns a new List which excludes this `index` and with a size 1 less than this List. Values at indices above `index` are shifted down by 1 to fill the position.

```typescript
delete(index: number): List<T>
```

**\*deleteIn()**

Returns a new List having removed the value at this keyPath. If any keys in keyPath do not exist, no change will occur.

```typescript
deleteIn(keyPath: Iterable<any>): this
```

**\*get()**

Returns the value associated with the provided index, or notSetValue if the index is beyond the bounds of the Collection.

```typescript
get<NSV>(index: number, notSetValue: NSV): T | NSV
get(index: number): T | undefined
```

**\*getIn()**

Returns the value found by following a path of keys or indices through nested Collections.

```typescript
getIn(searchKeyPath: Iterable<any>, notSetValue?: any): any
```

**\*has()**

True if a key exists within this Collection.

```typescript
has(key: number): boolean
```

**\*hashCode()**

The hashCode() function is an important part of how Perpetual determines if two values are equivalent and is used to determine how to store those values.

```typescript
hashCode(): number
```

**\*includes()**

True if a value exists within this Collection, using Immutable.is to determine equality

```typescript
includes(value: T): boolean
```

**\*insert()**

Returns a new List with `value` at `index` with a size 1 more than this List. Values at indices above `index` are shifted over by 1.

```typescript
insert(index: number, value: T): List<T>
```

**\*map()**

Returns a new List with values passed through a mapper function.

```typescript
map<M>(mapper: (value: T, key: number, iter: this) => M, context?: any): List<M>
```

**\*mergeDeepIn()**

A combination of updateIn and mergeDeep, returning a new Map, but performing the deep merge at a point arrived at by following the keyPath.

```typescript
mergeDeepIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, ...collections: Array<any>): this
```

**\*mergeIn()**

A combination of updateIn and merge, returning a new Map, but performing the merge at a point arrived at by following the keyPath.

```typescript
mergeIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, ...collections: Array<any>): this
```

**\*pop()**

Returns a new List with a size ones less than this List, excluding the last index in this List.

```typescript
pop(): List<T>
```

**\*push()**

Returns a new List with the provided values appended, starting at this List's size.

```typescript
push(...values: Array<T>): List<T>
```

**\*set()**

Returns a new List which includes `value` at `index`. If `index` already exists in this List, it will be replaced.

```typescript
set(index: number, value: T): List<T>
```

**\*setIn()**

Returns a new List having set value at this `keyPath`. If any keys in `keyPath` do not exist, a new immutable Map will be created at that key.

```typescript
setIn(keyPath: Iterable<any>, value: any): this
```

**\*shift()**

Returns a new List with a size ones less than this List, excluding the first index in this List, shifting all other values to a lower index.

```typescript
shift(): List<T>
```

**\*splice()**

Splice returns a new indexed Collection by replacing a region of this Collection with new values. If values are not provided, it only skips the region to be removed.

```typescript
splice(index: number, removeNum: number, ...values: Array<T>): this
```

**\*reduce()**

Reduces the Collection to a value by calling the reducer for every entry in the Collection and passing along the reduced value.

```typescript
reduce<R>(
reducer: (reduction: R, value: T, key: number, iter: this) => R,
initialReduction: R,
context?: any
): R
reduce<R>(
reducer: (reduction: T | R, value: T, key: number, iter: this) => R
): R
```

**\*toJS()**

Deeply converts this Indexed collection to equivalent native JavaScript Array.

```typescript
toJS(): Array<any>
```

**\*unshift()**

Returns a new List with the provided values prepended, shifting other values ahead to higher indices.

```typescript
unshift(...values: Array<T>): List<T>
```

**\*update()**

Returns a new List with an updated value at `index` with the return value of calling updater with the existing value, or `notSetValue` if `index` was not set. If called with a single argument, updater is called with the List itself.

```typescript
update(index: number, notSetValue: T, updater: (value: T) => T): this
update(index: number, updater: (value: T) => T): this
update<R>(updater: (value: this) => R): R
```

**\*updateIn()**

Returns a new Map having applied the updater to the entry found at the keyPath.

```typescript
updateIn(
keyPath: Iterable<array>,
notSetValue: any,
updater: (value: any) => any
): this
updateIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, updater: (value: any) => any): this
```

**\*withMutations()**

Every time you call one of the above functions, a new immutable List is created. If a pure function calls a number of these to produce a final return value, then a penalty on performance and memory has been paid by creating all of the intermediate immutable Lists.

```typescript
withMutations(mutator: (mutable: this) => any): this
```

Commit message:

added spread method to readme

README.md, after:

# perpetual-js

A light weight version of Immutable.js.
This library comes in at 8kb minified and 3kb minified + gzipped.

Because of efforts to keep bundle size small not all methods are included in Perpetual. Just the essential ones.

## Installation

Install `perpetual-js` using npm or yarn.

```
npm install perpetual-js
yarn add perpetual-js
```

## Requirements

```JavaScript
Object.assign()
rest/spread
{ ...object }
```

## Usage

Perpetual comes with two different immutable collections: Map and List.
`Map`: is a collection of key value pairs.
`List`: is a collection of values.

### Example

- Can import multiple different ways.

```jsx
import { Map, List } from 'perpetual-js';

const map = Map({ value: 'value' });
const list = List([1, 2, 3, 4]);
```

## fromJS()

Deeply converts plain JS objects and arrays to Immutable Maps and Lists.

```typescript
fromJS(jsValue: any): any
```

## is()

Value equality check with semantics similar to Object.is, but treats Immutable Collections as values, equal if the second Collection includes equivalent values.

```typescript
is(first: any, second: any): boolean
```

## Map

**\*get()**

Returns the value associated with the provided key, or notSetValue if the Collection does not contain this key.

```typescript
get<NSV>(key: K, notSetValue: NSV): V | NSV
get(key: K): V | undefined
```

**\*getIn()**

Returns the value found by following a path of keys or indices through nested Collections.

```typescript
getIn(searchKeyPath: Iterable<array>, notSetValue?: any): any
```

**\*hashCode()**

The hashCode() function is an important part of how Perpetual determines if two values are equivalent and is used to determine how to store those values.

```typescript
hashCode(): number
```

**\*has()**

True if a key exists within this `Collection`.

```typescript
has(key: K): boolean
```

**\*hasIn()**

True if the result of following a path of keys or indices through nested Collections results in a set value.

```typescript
hasIn(searchKeyPath: Iterable<array>): boolean
```

**\*map()**

Returns a new Map with values passed through a mapper function.

```typescript
map<M>(mapper: (value: V, key: K, iter: this) => M, context?: any): Map<K, M>
```

**\*merge()**

Returns a new Map resulting from merging the provided Collections (or JS objects) into this Map. In other words, this takes each entry of each collection and sets it on this Map.

```typescript
merge<KC, VC>(...collections: Array<Iterable<[KC, VC]>>): Map<K | KC, V | VC>
merge<C>(...collections: Array<{[key: string]: C}>): Map<K | string, V | C>
```

**\*mergeDeep()**

Like merge(), but when two Collections conflict, it merges them as well, recursing deeply through the nested data.

```typescript
mergeDeep(...collections: Array<Iterable<[K, V]> | {[key: string]: V}>): this
```

**\*mergeDeepIn()**

A combination of updateIn and mergeDeep, returning a new Map, but performing the deep merge at a point arrived at by following the keyPath.

```typescript
mergeDeepIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, ...collections: Array<any>): this
```

**\*mergeIn()**

A combination of updateIn and merge, returning a new Map, but performing the merge at a point arrived at by following the keyPath.

```typescript
mergeIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, ...collections: Array<any>): this
```

**\*set()**

Returns a new Map also containing the new key, value pair. If an equivalent key already exists in this Map, it will be replaced.

```typescript
set(key: K, value: V): this
```

**\*setIn()**

Returns a new Map having set `value` at this `keyPath`. If any keys in `keyPath` do not exist, a new immutable Map will be created at that key.

```typescript
setIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, value: any): this
```

**\*spread()**

Returns an Object with the values provided to the spread method.

```typescript
spread(...keys: keyPath<array> | key<string>) : Object
```

**\*delete()**

Returns a new Map which exludes this `key`.

```typescript
delete(key: K): this
```

alias: remove()

**\*deleteIn()**

Returns a new Map having removed the value at this keyPath. If any keys in keyPath do not exist, no change will occur.

```typescript
deleteIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>): this
```

**\*reduce()**

Returns a new Map with values passed through a `reduce` function.

```typescript
reduce<R>(
reducer: (reduction: R, value: [K, V], key: number, iter: this) => R,
initialReduction: R,
context?: any
): R
reduce<R>(
reducer: (reduction: T | R, value: [K, V], key: number, iter: this) => R
): R
```

**\*toJS()**

Deeply converts this Keyed collection to equivalent native JavaScript Object.

```typescript
toJS(): Object
```

**\*update()**

Returns a new Map having updated the value at this key with the return value of calling updater with the existing value.

```typescript
update(key: K, notSetValue: V, updater: (value: V) => V): this
update(key: K, updater: (value: V) => V): this
update<R>(updater: (value: this) => R): R
```

**\*updateIn()**

Returns a new Map having applied the updater to the entry found at the keyPath.

```typescript
updateIn(
keyPath: Iterable<array>,
notSetValue: any,
updater: (value: any) => any
): this
updateIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, updater: (value: any) => any): this
```

**\*withMutations()**

Every time you call one of the above functions, a new immutable Map is created. If a pure function calls a number of these to produce a final return value, then a penalty on performance and memory has been paid by creating all of the intermediate immutable Maps.

```typescript
withMutations(mutator: (mutable: this) => any): this
```

## List

**\*clear()**

Returns a new List with 0 size and no values in constant time.

```typescript
clear(): List<T>
```

**\*concat()**

Returns a new List with other values or collections concatenated to this one.

```typescript
concat<C>(...valuesOrCollections: Array<Iterable<C> | C>): List<T | C>
```

alias: merge

**\*delete()**

Returns a new List which excludes this `index` and with a size 1 less than this List. Values at indices above `index` are shifted down by 1 to fill the position.

```typescript
delete(index: number): List<T>
```

**\*deleteIn()**

Returns a new List having removed the value at this keyPath. If any keys in keyPath do not exist, no change will occur.

```typescript
deleteIn(keyPath: Iterable<any>): this
```

**\*get()**

Returns the value associated with the provided index, or notSetValue if the index is beyond the bounds of the Collection.

```typescript
get<NSV>(index: number, notSetValue: NSV): T | NSV
get(index: number): T | undefined
```

**\*getIn()**

Returns the value found by following a path of keys or indices through nested Collections.

```typescript
getIn(searchKeyPath: Iterable<any>, notSetValue?: any): any
```

**\*has()**

True if a key exists within this Collection.

```typescript
has(key: number): boolean
```

**\*hashCode()**

The hashCode() function is an important part of how Perpetual determines if two values are equivalent and is used to determine how to store those values.

```typescript
hashCode(): number
```

**\*includes()**

True if a value exists within this Collection, using Immutable.is to determine equality

```typescript
includes(value: T): boolean
```

**\*insert()**

Returns a new List with `value` at `index` with a size 1 more than this List. Values at indices above `index` are shifted over by 1.

```typescript
insert(index: number, value: T): List<T>
```

**\*map()**

Returns a new List with values passed through a mapper function.

```typescript
map<M>(mapper: (value: T, key: number, iter: this) => M, context?: any): List<M>
```

**\*mergeDeepIn()**

A combination of updateIn and mergeDeep, returning a new Map, but performing the deep merge at a point arrived at by following the keyPath.

```typescript
mergeDeepIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, ...collections: Array<any>): this
```

**\*mergeIn()**

A combination of updateIn and merge, returning a new Map, but performing the merge at a point arrived at by following the keyPath.

```typescript
mergeIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, ...collections: Array<any>): this
```

**\*pop()**

Returns a new List with a size ones less than this List, excluding the last index in this List.

```typescript
pop(): List<T>
```

**\*push()**

Returns a new List with the provided values appended, starting at this List's size.

```typescript
push(...values: Array<T>): List<T>
```

**\*set()**

Returns a new List which includes `value` at `index`. If `index` already exists in this List, it will be replaced.

```typescript
set(index: number, value: T): List<T>
```

**\*setIn()**

Returns a new List having set value at this `keyPath`. If any keys in `keyPath` do not exist, a new immutable Map will be created at that key.

```typescript
setIn(keyPath: Iterable<any>, value: any): this
```

**\*shift()**

Returns a new List with a size ones less than this List, excluding the first index in this List, shifting all other values to a lower index.

```typescript
shift(): List<T>
```

**\*splice()**

Splice returns a new indexed Collection by replacing a region of this Collection with new values. If values are not provided, it only skips the region to be removed.

```typescript
splice(index: number, removeNum: number, ...values: Array<T>): this
```

**\*spread()**

Returns an Array with the values provided to the spread method.

```typescript
spread(...keys: keyPath<array> | key<string>) : Array
```

**\*reduce()**

Reduces the Collection to a value by calling the reducer for every entry in the Collection and passing along the reduced value.

```typescript
reduce<R>(
reducer: (reduction: R, value: T, key: number, iter: this) => R,
initialReduction: R,
context?: any
): R
reduce<R>(
reducer: (reduction: T | R, value: T, key: number, iter: this) => R
): R
```

**\*toJS()**

Deeply converts this Indexed collection to equivalent native JavaScript Array.

```typescript
toJS(): Array<any>
```

**\*unshift()**

Returns a new List with the provided values prepended, shifting other values ahead to higher indices.

```typescript
unshift(...values: Array<T>): List<T>
```

**\*update()**

Returns a new List with an updated value at `index` with the return value of calling updater with the existing value, or `notSetValue` if `index` was not set. If called with a single argument, updater is called with the List itself.

```typescript
update(index: number, notSetValue: T, updater: (value: T) => T): this
update(index: number, updater: (value: T) => T): this
update<R>(updater: (value: this) => R): R
```

**\*updateIn()**

Returns a new Map having applied the updater to the entry found at the keyPath.

```typescript
updateIn(
keyPath: Iterable<array>,
notSetValue: any,
updater: (value: any) => any
): this
updateIn(keyPath: Iterable<array>, updater: (value: any) => any): this
```

**\*withMutations()**

Every time you call one of the above functions, a new immutable List is created. If a pure function calls a number of these to produce a final return value, then a penalty on performance and memory has been paid by creating all of the intermediate immutable Lists.

```typescript
withMutations(mutator: (mutable: this) => any): this
```
